---
layout: post
title: SCRUM The Art of Doing Twice the Work in Half the Time by Jeff Sutherland
author: James Clancy
tags: books business
---

## A business book with surprising good prose quality. - 8/10


## Summary

The book details the SCRUM framework as defined by Jeff Sutherland, walks through how the different parts work and gives some examples of the usages of SCRUM outside of software development.  

## My Impressions

I was very pleasantly surprised by how well the book was written and how it actually flowed together. Generally, most business books are sort of bland and often poorly edited. This books was engaging, entertaining, informative and an easy read. 

I really liked the context and explanation of the [OODA Loop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OODA_loop) (Observe -> Orient -> Decide -> Act). I thought some of the military/ historical based examples of ideas helped to drive home the points, I had to learn about WWI, WWII, Vietnam etc since I was a kid putting these ideas in the context of these conflicts resinates much better then simply talking about Toyota. 

With all that being said I did think some of the Toyota love was a little over the top, while I am sure Toyota is one of the best run companies I feel like there have to be other companies that demonstrate similar values. Additionally, I think implying that SCRUM can fix all the worlds problems is a bit of stretch. For example, I feel like the government examples demonstrate that in order to conquer large problems you have to break them into smaller, doable parts and execute on those parts individually. While that is what you do with SCRUM that isn't really a uniquely SCRUM idea, that is is just effective problem solving in general. 